docs: release notes 4.4.b (#3547)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/release-notes/release-notes.md

<ReleaseNotesVersions />

## Aug 17, 2024 - Release 4.4.14

<!-- Replace heading ID with the release version below -->

> This release is specific to Palette Enterprise and does not apply to Palette VerteX.

Reviewer: Does this mean Self-hosted Palette? I've not see Enterprise many places in the docs.

Author: This just means Palette. Jeremy is the one that specifically asked me to use "Palette Enterprise" instead of just Palette lol.

Reviewer 2: @lenny use Palette. We don't use the term Palette enterprise anywhere in our docs

> ### Palette Enterprise {#release-4-4-14}

Reviewer: Same comment about Enterprise vs Self-hosted here

  [Validate Environment](../automation/palette-cli/commands/ec.md#validate-environment) section of the Palette EC
  command documentation to learn more.

- `nodeDrainTimeout` for clusters has been changed from 10 mins from the previous version to infinite.

  - New clusters will have an infinite `nodeDrainTimeout` upon creation.

>   - Existing clusters will retain their existing `nodeDrainTimeout` until there is a new machine created in the control

Reviewer: Machines created in the control plane only or also worker nodes? I think worker nodes too.

    plane through scaling, upgrading, or repaving, or when a worker node pool is added or scaled out.

  If any pods fail to be drained, they will be stuck in the draining process and would require manual intervention.

#### Features

> - Introducing new filter options to improve the pack selection experience within Palette. Users can now easily filter

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- This release introduces new filter options to improve the pack selection experience within Palette. Users can now easily filter
```

> - Introducing new filter options to improve the pack selection experience within Palette. Users can now easily filter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introducing new filter options to improve the pack selection experience within Palette. Users can now filter
```

>   packs by "Verified" and "FIPS Compliant" status using toggles, facilitating quicker and more efficient pack searches

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  packs by `Verified` and `FIPS Compliant` status using toggles, facilitating quicker and more efficient pack searches
```

  and selections.

> - A new API now allows users to update both DNS hosts and SSL certificates simultaneously in Palette. This update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A new API endpoint now allows users to update both DNS hosts and SSL certificates simultaneously in Palette. This update
```

  addresses user-reported issues related to circular dependencies when updating DNS hosts and certificates separately.
  The change will also be reflected in the UI by merging DNS and certificate update functionalities onto a single page,
  enhancing user experience and functionality validation.

- The VMO airgap binary has moved out of Preview status into Production-ready state.

#### Improvements

- Improvements made to Palette reduced resource usage and improved the reliability and responsiveness of the cluster
  management.

- Reduced latency in permission resolution, especially for users with access to a large number of projects.

- Reduced CPU and memory consumption within the pods and enhanced overall system performance during machine health
  updates.

#### Fixes

- Fixed an issue that sometimes caused CSI errors if there are multiple instances of self-hosted Palette or VerteX in a
  single vSphere environment.

### Edge

#### Features

> - Introducing a validation tool for the install configuration **user-data** for Edge hosts. Errors in **user-data**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- This release introduces a validation tool for the install configuration **user-data** for Edge hosts. Errors in **user-data**
```

  YAML formatting and schema compliance during build time to catch issues earlier. For more information, refer to
  [Validate User Data](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/validate-user-data.md).

- This release introduces file download support within Local UI, which allows users to write files to a fixed path on
  the Edge host and download them from Local UI. Previously, gathering files from Edge hosts required elevated
  privileges and could be error-prone when executed manually. For more information, refer to
  [Download Files from Local UI](../clusters/edge/local-ui/host-management/download-files.md).

- Palette agent on Edge hosts will now produce audit logs. This capability captures timestamped records for a variety of
  events, including authentication attempts, configuration changes, and cluster management activities. In addition, you
  can program your own applications to send logs to the same location, and have Local UI display those log entries. For
  more information, refer to [Configure Audit Logs](../clusters/edge/local-ui/host-management/audit-logs.md).

> - Local UI will now display progress and status during cluster deployment. Users can now monitor key milestones in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Local UI displays progress and status during cluster deployment. Users can now monitor key milestones in
```

#### CNI

| Pack   | New Version |
| ------ | ----------- |
| Cilium | 1.15.7      |

#### CSI

| Pack        | New Version |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Azure Disk  | 1.30.1      |
| AWS EBS     | 1.33.0      |
| VSphere CSI | 3.3.0       |

#### FIPS

| Pack                               | New Version |
| ---------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Longhorn                           | 1.6.2       |
| Palette eXtended Kubernetes - FIPS | 1.27.16     |
| Palette eXtended Kubernetes - FIPS | 1.28.12     |
| Palette eXtended Kubernetes - FIPS | 1.29.7      |

#### Add-on Packs

| Pack       | New Version |
| ---------- | ----------- |
| MetalLB    | 0.14.5      |
| Prometheus | 58.6.0      |

### Automation

#### Features

- A new tool for building CAPI images is now available. The CAPI Image Builder reduces the challenges associated with
  creating images for Kubernetes clusters. It is based on the upstream
  [Kubernetes Image Builder (KIB)](https://image-builder.sigs.k8s.io/introduction.html) project and includes all the
  dependencies required to build FIPS and non-FIPS images within a Docker container. For more information, refer to

>   [CAPI Image Builder](https://deploy-preview-3523--docs-spectrocloud.netlify.app/byoos/capi-image-builder/).

Reviewer 3: Lenny could you add the correct link here? not the netlify one :)

#### Improvements

> - You will now receive a clear warning message in the terminal after issuing the `terraform plan` command if your action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Users receive a clear warning message in the terminal after issuing the `terraform plan` command if actions
```

>   would result in a cluster repave. Previously, this notification is not available in Terraform-managed environments,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  would result in a cluster repave. Previously, this notification was not available in Terraform-managed environments,
```

  leading to potential oversight by users.

### Virtual Machine Orchestrator

#### Features

- The Virtual Machine Orchestrator (VMO) pack is now available for use in tenants that belong to your airgapped

>   self-hosted instance of Palette. For more information, refer to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 instance of Palette. For more information, refer to
```

Reviewer: Airgap is automatically self hosted
